Title: Dubliners
Author: James Joyce

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

Between these rival ends ran parallel lines of side-dishes: two little
minsters of jelly, red and yellow; a shallow dish full of blocks of
blancmange and red jam, a large green leaf-shaped dish with a
stalk-shaped handle, on which lay bunches of purple raisins and peeled
almonds, a companion dish on which lay a solid rectangle of Smyrna
figs, a dish of custard topped with grated nutmeg, a small bowl full of
chocolates and sweets wrapped in gold and silver papers and a glass
vase in which stood some tall celery stalks. - number of characters: 530

For when I
view them in turn, whether it be our chief hostess herself, whose good
heart, whose too good heart, has become a byword with all who know her,
or her sister, who seems to be gifted with perennial youth and whose
singing must have been a surprise and a revelation to us all tonight,
or, last but not least, when I consider our youngest hostess, talented,
cheerful, hard-working and the best of nieces, I confess, Ladies and
Gentlemen, that I do not know to which of them I should award the
prize. - number of characters: 514

Jesus
Christ, with His divine understanding of every cranny of our human
nature, understood that all men were not called to the religious life,
that by far the vast majority were forced to live in the world and, to
a certain extent, for the world: and in this sentence He designed to
give them a word of counsel, setting before them as exemplars in the
religious life those very worshippers of Mammon who were of all men the
least solicitous in matters religious. - number of characters: 470

Mr Browne, whose face was once more
wrinkling with mirth, poured out for himself a glass of whisky while
Freddy Malins exploded, before he had well reached the climax of his
story, in a kink of high-pitched bronchitic laughter and, setting down
his untasted and overflowing glass, began to rub the knuckles of his
left fist backwards and forwards into his left eye, repeating words of
his last phrase as well as his fit of laughter would allow him. - number of characters: 454

In her days
of courtship Mr Kernan had seemed to her a not ungallant figure: and
she still hurried to the chapel door whenever a wedding was reported
and, seeing the bridal pair, recalled with vivid pleasure how she had
passed out of the Star of the Sea Church in Sandymount, leaning on the
arm of a jovial well-fed man, who was dressed smartly in a frock-coat
and lavender trousers and carried a silk hat gracefully balanced upon
his other arm. - number of characters: 452

One got the
prayer-book and the other three got the water; and when one of the
next-door girls got the ring Mrs Donnelly shook her finger at the
blushing girl as much as to say: _O, I know all about it!_ They
insisted then on blindfolding Maria and leading her up to the table to
see what she would get; and, while they were putting on the bandage,
Maria laughed and laughed again till the tip of her nose nearly met the
tip of her chin. - number of characters: 444

The duties of the priest towards the Eucharist and
towards the secrecy of the confessional seemed so grave to me that I
wondered how anybody had ever found in himself the courage to undertake
them; and I was not surprised when he told me that the fathers of the
Church had written books as thick as the _Post Office Directory_ and as
closely printed as the law notices in the newspaper, elucidating all
these intricate questions. - number of characters: 435

How he
had suffered that day, waiting at the shop door until the shop was
empty, standing at the counter and trying to appear at his ease while
the girl piled ladies blouses before him, paying at the desk and
forgetting to take up the odd penny of his change, being called back by
the cashier, and finally, striving to hide his blushes as he left the
shop by examining the parcel to see if it was securely tied. - number of characters: 417

He told too of how the top gallery of the old Royal used to be
packed night after night, of how one night an Italian tenor had sung
five encores to _Let me like a Soldier fall_, introducing a high C
every time, and of how the gallery boys would sometimes in their
enthusiasm unyoke the horses from the carriage of some great _prima
donna_ and pull her themselves through the streets to her hotel. - number of characters: 401

For years and years it had gone off in
splendid style as long as anyone could remember; ever since Kate and
Julia, after the death of their brother Pat, had left the house in
Stoney Batter and taken Mary Jane, their only niece, to live with them
in the dark gaunt house on Ushers Island, the upper part of which they
had rented from Mr Fulham, the corn-factor on the ground floor. - number of characters: 385

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
she
asked. - number of words: 1
peacefully? - number of words: 1
Home! - number of words: 1
Escape! - number of words: 1
Come! - number of words: 1
Eveline! - number of words: 1
Evvy! - number of words: 1
André. - number of words: 1
What
merriment! - number of words: 1
Cards! - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "autobiographical", length: 16
Word "interrogatively", length: 15
Word "accomplishments", length: 15
Word "philosophically", length: 15
Word "argumentatively", length: 15
Word "disappointments", length: 15
Word "thoughtlessness", length: 15
Word "appropriateness", length: 15
Word "compassionately", length: 15
Word "impressionable", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 3632
Word "and", count: 2144
Word "of", count: 1834
Word "to", count: 1731
Word "a", count: 1496
Word "was", count: 1153
Word "he", count: 1111
Word "his", count: 1070
Word "in", count: 1010
Word "had", count: 809

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 35725
Letter "t", count: 24558
Letter "a", count: 23810
Letter "o", count: 21231
Letter "h", count: 20013
Letter "n", count: 19734
Letter "i", count: 18791
Letter "s", count: 18006
Letter "r", count: 16373
Letter "d", count: 13650

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ".", count: 4516
Punctuation mark ",", count: 3479
Punctuation mark "“", count: 1325
Punctuation mark "”", count: 1320
Punctuation mark "’", count: 1308
Punctuation mark "-", count: 410
Punctuation mark "?", count: 396
Punctuation mark ":", count: 359
Punctuation mark "_", count: 326
Punctuation mark "!", count: 298
