Title: Heart of Darkness
Author: Joseph Conrad

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

How could you?—with solid pavement under your feet,
surrounded by kind neighbours ready to cheer you or to fall on you,
stepping delicately between the butcher and the policeman, in the holy
terror of scandal and gallows and lunatic asylums—how can you imagine
what particular region of the first ages a mans untrammelled feet may
take him into by the way of solitude—utter solitude without a
policeman—by the way of silence—utter silence, where no warning voice
of a kind neighbour can be heard whispering of public opinion? - number of characters: 532

We called at
some more places with farcical names, where the merry dance of death
and trade goes on in a still and earthy atmosphere as of an overheated
catacomb; all along the formless coast bordered by dangerous surf, as
if Nature herself had tried to ward off intruders; in and out of
rivers, streams of death in life, whose banks were rotting into mud,
whose waters, thickened into slime, invaded the contorted mangroves,
that seemed to writhe at us in the extremity of an impotent despair. - number of characters: 501

When we came abreast
again, they faced the river, stamped their feet, nodded their horned
heads, swayed their scarlet bodies; they shook towards the fierce
river-demon a bunch of black feathers, a mangy skin with a pendent
tail—something that looked a dried gourd; they shouted periodically
together strings of amazing words that resembled no sounds of human
language; and the deep murmurs of the crowd, interrupted suddenly, were
like the responses of some satanic litany. - number of characters: 480

His clothes had been made of some stuff that was brown
holland probably, but it was covered with patches all over, with bright
patches, blue, red, and yellow—patches on the back, patches on the
front, patches on elbows, on knees; coloured binding around his jacket,
scarlet edging at the bottom of his trousers; and the sunshine made him
look extremely gay and wonderfully neat withal, because you could see
how beautifully all this patching had been done. - number of characters: 462

I had
to keep guessing at the channel; I had to discern, mostly by
inspiration, the signs of hidden banks; I watched for sunken stones; I
was learning to clap my teeth smartly before my heart flew out, when I
shaved by a fluke some infernal sly old snag that would have ripped the
life out of the tin-pot steamboat and drowned all the pilgrims; I had
to keep a lookout for the signs of dead wood we could cut up in the
night for next days steaming. - number of characters: 455

I thought his memory was like the other memories of the dead that
accumulate in every mans life—a vague impress on the brain of shadows
that had fallen on it in their swift and final passage; but before the
high and ponderous door, between the tall houses of a street as still
and decorous as a well-kept alley in a cemetery, I had a vision of him
on the stretcher, opening his mouth voraciously, as if to devour all
the earth with all its mankind. - number of characters: 454

I looked at them with a swift
quickening of interest—not because it occurred to me I might be eaten
by them before very long, though I own to you that just then I
perceived—in a new light, as it were—how unwholesome the pilgrims
looked, and I hoped, yes, I positively hoped, that my aspect was not
so—what shall I say?—so—unappetizing: a touch of fantastic vanity which
fitted well with the dream-sensation that pervaded all my days at that
time. - number of characters: 453

The
other explained that it had come with a fleet of canoes in charge of an
English half-caste clerk Kurtz had with him; that Kurtz had apparently
intended to return himself, the station being by that time bare of
goods and stores, but after coming three hundred miles, had suddenly
decided to go back, which he started to do alone in a small dugout with
four paddlers, leaving the half-caste to continue down the river with
the ivory. - number of characters: 442

It is the gift of the great, she went on, and
the sound of her low voice seemed to have the accompaniment of all the
other sounds, full of mystery, desolation, and sorrow, I had ever
heard—the ripple of the river, the soughing of the trees swayed by the
wind, the murmurs of the crowds, the faint ring of incomprehensible
words cried from afar, the whisper of a voice speaking from beyond the
threshold of an eternal darkness. - number of characters: 432

Instantly, in the emptiness of the landscape, a cry arose whose
shrillness pierced the still air like a sharp arrow flying straight to
the very heart of the land; and, as if by enchantment, streams of human
beings—of naked human beings—with spears in their hands, with bows,
with shields, with wild glances and savage movements, were poured into
the clearing by the dark-faced and pensive forest. - number of characters: 401

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Heavens! - number of words: 1
Ough! - number of words: 1
Famous. - number of words: 1
_Adieu_. - number of words: 1
Good-bye. - number of words: 1
Good-bye. - number of words: 1
_Adieu_. - number of words: 1
So-o-o! - number of words: 1
Farewell. - number of words: 1
Kurtz. - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "incomprehensible", length: 16
Word "misunderstanding", length: 16
Word "superciliousness", length: 16
Word "unextinguishable", length: 16
Word "inextinguishable", length: 16
Word "trustworthiness", length: 15
Word "architecturally", length: 15
Word "straightforward", length: 15
Word "recommendations", length: 15
Word "affectionately", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 2069
Word "of", count: 1364
Word "I", count: 1154
Word "a", count: 1106
Word "and", count: 916
Word "to", count: 881
Word "was", count: 665
Word "in", count: 594
Word "had", count: 502
Word "that", count: 416

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 20564
Letter "t", count: 15246
Letter "a", count: 13242
Letter "o", count: 12329
Letter "i", count: 11528
Letter "n", count: 10947
Letter "h", count: 10317
Letter "s", count: 10190
Letter "r", count: 8887
Letter "d", count: 7236

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 2849
Punctuation mark ".", count: 2388
Punctuation mark "’", count: 741
Punctuation mark "—", count: 623
Punctuation mark "‘", count: 430
Punctuation mark "-", count: 260
Punctuation mark ";", count: 229
Punctuation mark "“", count: 198
Punctuation mark "!", count: 159
Punctuation mark "?", count: 155
