Title: Peter Pan
Author: J. M. Barrie

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

Here is Bill Jukes, every inch of him tattooed, the same
Bill Jukes who got six dozen on the _Walrus_ from Flint before he would
drop the bag of moidores; and Cookson, said to be Black Murphys
brother (but this was never proved), and Gentleman Starkey, once an
usher in a public school and still dainty in his ways of killing; and
Skylights (Morgans Skylights); and the Irish bosun Smee, an oddly
genial man who stabbed, so to speak, without offence, and was the only
Non-conformist in Hooks crew; and Noodler, whose hands were fixed on
backwards; and Robt. - number of characters: 565

There are zigzag lines on it, just like your temperature on a
card, and these are probably roads in the island, for the Neverland is
always more or less an island, with astonishing splashes of colour here
and there, and coral reefs and rakish-looking craft in the offing, and
savages and lonely lairs, and gnomes who are mostly tailors, and caves
through which a river runs, and princes with six elder brothers, and a
hut fast going to decay, and one very small old lady with a hooked
nose. - number of characters: 497

I have one pound seventeen here, and two and six at the office; I can
cut off my coffee at the office, say ten shillings, making two nine and
six, with your eighteen and three makes three nine seven, with five
naught naught in my cheque-book makes eight nine seven—who is that
moving?—eight nine seven, dot and carry seven—dont speak, my own—and
the pound you lent to that man who came to the door—quiet, child—dot
and carry child—there, youve done it!—did I say nine nine seven? - number of characters: 485

It would be an easy map if that were all, but there is also first
day at school, religion, fathers, the round pond, needle-work, murders,
hangings, verbs that take the dative, chocolate pudding day, getting
into braces, say ninety-nine, three-pence for pulling out your tooth
yourself, and so on, and either these are part of the island or they
are another map showing through, and it is all rather confusing,
especially as nothing will stand still. - number of characters: 455

Mumps one pound, that is what I have put down, but I daresay it
will be more like thirty shillings—dont speak—measles one five, German
measles half a guinea, makes two fifteen six—dont waggle your
finger—whooping-cough, say fifteen shillings—and so on it went, and it
added up differently each time; but at last Wendy just got through,
with mumps reduced to twelve six, and the two kinds of measles treated
as one. - number of characters: 420

From the accounts afterwards supplied by
such of the scouts as escaped the carnage, he does not seem even to
have paused at the rising ground, though it is certain that in that
grey light he must have seen it: no thought of waiting to be attacked
appears from first to last to have visited his subtle mind; he would
not even hold off till the night was nearly spent; on he pounded with
no policy but to fall to. - number of characters: 417

The most haunting time at which to see them is at the turn of the moon,
when they utter strange wailing cries; but the lagoon is dangerous for
mortals then, and until the evening of which we have now to tell, Wendy
had never seen the lagoon by moonlight, less from fear, for of course
Peter would have accompanied her, than because she had strict rules
about every one being in bed by seven. - number of characters: 396

Had she haughtily unhanded him (and we should have loved to write it of
her), she would have been hurled through the air like the others, and
then Hook would probably not have been present at the tying of the
children; and had he not been at the tying he would not have discovered
Slightlys secret, and without the secret he could not presently have
made his foul attempt on Peters life. - number of characters: 392

When she stole softly to the edge of the lagoon
she might see them by the score, especially on Marooners Rock, where
they loved to bask, combing out their hair in a lazy way that quite
irritated her; or she might even swim, on tiptoe as it were, to within
a yard of them, but then they saw her and dived, probably splashing her
with their tails, not by accident, but intentionally. - number of characters: 386

Of
course, as we have seen, he was quite a simple man; indeed he might
have passed for a boy again if he had been able to take his baldness
off; but he had also a noble sense of justice and a lions courage to
do what seemed right to him; and having thought the matter out with
anxious care after the flight of the children, he went down on all
fours and crawled into the kennel. - number of characters: 384

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Darling. - number of words: 1
Ah
me! - number of words: 1
Darling. - number of words: 1
Matter! - number of words: 1
Darling. - number of words: 1
Danger! - number of words: 1
Im
captain. - number of words: 1
Funny! - number of words: 1
Mermaids! - number of words: 1
Hide! - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "extraordinarily", length: 15
Word "condescendingly", length: 15
Word "insubordination", length: 15
Word "personification", length: 15
Word "simultaneously", length: 14
Word "contemptuously", length: 14
Word "apologetically", length: 14
Word "unsatisfactory", length: 14
Word "recriminations", length: 14
Word "vindictiveness", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 2162
Word "and", count: 1358
Word "to", count: 1167
Word "was", count: 922
Word "a", count: 903
Word "he", count: 876
Word "of", count: 812
Word "it", count: 653
Word "in", count: 640
Word "that", count: 596

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 25122
Letter "t", count: 18393
Letter "a", count: 15072
Letter "h", count: 14431
Letter "o", count: 14125
Letter "n", count: 12939
Letter "i", count: 12880
Letter "s", count: 12031
Letter "r", count: 10611
Letter "d", count: 9142

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 3837
Punctuation mark ".", count: 2812
Punctuation mark "“", count: 1464
Punctuation mark "”", count: 1464
Punctuation mark "’", count: 558
Punctuation mark ";", count: 389
Punctuation mark "?", count: 319
Punctuation mark "!", count: 235
Punctuation mark "-", count: 198
Punctuation mark "—", count: 78
