Title: The War of the Worlds
Author: H. G. Wells

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

Close inshore was a multitude of fishing smacks—English, Scotch,
French, Dutch, and Swedish; steam launches from the Thames, yachts,
electric boats; and beyond were ships of larger burden, a multitude of
filthy colliers, trim merchantmen, cattle ships, passenger boats,
petroleum tanks, ocean tramps, an old white transport even, neat white
and grey liners from Southampton and Hamburg; and along the blue coast
across the Blackwater my brother could make out dimly a dense swarm of
boats chaffering with the people on the beach, a swarm which also
extended up the Blackwater almost to Maldon. - number of characters: 601

They just used to skedaddle off to
work—Ive seen hundreds of em, bit of breakfast in hand, running wild
and shining to catch their little season-ticket train, for fear theyd
get dismissed if they didnt; working at businesses they were afraid to
take the trouble to understand; skedaddling back for fear they wouldnt
be in time for dinner; keeping indoors after dinner for fear of the
back streets, and sleeping with the wives they married, not because
they wanted them, but because they had a bit of money that would make
for safety in their one little miserable skedaddle through the world. - number of characters: 599

And strange, too, it is to stand on Primrose Hill, as
I did but a day before writing this last chapter, to see the great
province of houses, dim and blue through the haze of the smoke and
mist, vanishing at last into the vague lower sky, to see the people
walking to and fro among the flower beds on the hill, to see the
sight-seers about the Martian machine that stands there still, to hear
the tumult of playing children, and to recall the time when I saw it
all bright and clear-cut, hard and silent, under the dawn of that last
great day. - number of characters: 550

And as I looked at this wide expanse of houses and factories and
churches, silent and abandoned; as I thought of the multitudinous hopes
and efforts, the innumerable hosts of lives that had gone to build this
human reef, and of the swift and ruthless destruction that had hung
over it all; when I realised that the shadow had been rolled back, and
that men might still live in the streets, and this dear vast dead city
of mine be once more alive and powerful, I felt a wave of emotion that
was near akin to tears. - number of characters: 520

One may picture the orderly expectation, the officers alert and
watchful, the gunners ready, the ammunition piled to hand, the limber
gunners with their horses and waggons, the groups of civilian
spectators standing as near as they were permitted, the evening
stillness, the ambulances and hospital tents with the burned and
wounded from Weybridge; then the dull resonance of the shots the
Martians fired, and the clumsy projectile whirling over the trees and
houses and smashing amid the neighbouring fields. - number of characters: 516

The peculiar V-shaped mouth with its
pointed upper lip, the absence of brow ridges, the absence of a chin
beneath the wedgelike lower lip, the incessant quivering of this mouth,
the Gorgon groups of tentacles, the tumultuous breathing of the lungs
in a strange atmosphere, the evident heaviness and painfulness of
movement due to the greater gravitational energy of the earth—above
all, the extraordinary intensity of the immense eyes—were at once
vital, intense, inhuman, crippled and monstrous. - number of characters: 503

One may picture, too, the sudden shifting of the attention, the swiftly
spreading coils and bellyings of that blackness advancing headlong,
towering heavenward, turning the twilight to a palpable darkness, a
strange and horrible antagonist of vapour striding upon its victims,
men and horses near it seen dimly, running, shrieking, falling
headlong, shouts of dismay, the guns suddenly abandoned, men choking
and writhing on the ground, and the swift broadening-out of the opaque
cone of smoke. - number of characters: 501

The habit of personal security, moreover, is so deeply fixed in the
Londoners mind, and startling intelligence so much a matter of course
in the papers, that they could read without any personal tremors:
About seven oclock last night the Martians came out of the cylinder,
and, moving about under an armour of metallic shields, have completely
wrecked Woking station with the adjacent houses, and massacred an
entire battalion of the Cardigan Regiment. - number of characters: 458

After a fruitless struggle to get aboard a North-Western train at Chalk
Farm—the engines of the trains that had loaded in the goods yard there
_ploughed_ through shrieking people, and a dozen stalwart men fought to
keep the crowd from crushing the driver against his furnace—my brother
emerged upon the Chalk Farm road, dodged across through a hurrying
swarm of vehicles, and had the luck to be foremost in the sack of a
cycle shop. - number of characters: 438

Here I found some young onions, a couple of gladiolus bulbs,
and a quantity of immature carrots, all of which I secured, and,
scrambling over a ruined wall, went on my way through scarlet and
crimson trees towards Kew—it was like walking through an avenue of
gigantic blood drops—possessed with two ideas: to get more food, and to
limp, as soon and as far as my strength permitted, out of this accursed
unearthly region of the pit. - number of characters: 437

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
VIII. - number of words: 1
XIII. - number of words: 1
XVII. - number of words: 1
VIII. - number of words: 1
WRECKAGE. - number of words: 1
Well? - number of words: 1
VIII. - number of words: 1
Leatherhead! - number of words: 1
Lord! - number of words: 1
Hist! - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "indistinguishable", length: 17
Word "photographically", length: 16
Word "incomprehensible", length: 16
Word "indiscriminately", length: 16
Word "disillusionment", length: 15
Word "purposelessness", length: 15
Word "notwithstanding", length: 15
Word "incompatibility", length: 15
Word "unintelligently", length: 15
Word "investigations", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 4418
Word "and", count: 2373
Word "of", count: 2287
Word "a", count: 1555
Word "I", count: 1307
Word "to", count: 1160
Word "in", count: 926
Word "was", count: 853
Word "that", count: 754
Word "had", count: 568

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 33401
Letter "t", count: 25684
Letter "a", count: 22444
Letter "n", count: 19259
Letter "o", count: 18668
Letter "i", count: 18109
Letter "h", count: 16450
Letter "s", count: 16180
Letter "r", count: 15686
Letter "d", count: 12870

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 4138
Punctuation mark ".", count: 3148
Punctuation mark "’", count: 411
Punctuation mark "“", count: 407
Punctuation mark "”", count: 407
Punctuation mark "-", count: 321
Punctuation mark "—", count: 311
Punctuation mark ";", count: 243
Punctuation mark "!", count: 203
Punctuation mark "?", count: 121
