Title: The call of the wild
Author: Jack London

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

On the next day
Koona went, and but five of them remained: Joe, too far gone to be
malignant; Pike, crippled and limping, only half conscious and not
conscious enough longer to malinger; Sol-leks, the one-eyed, still
faithful to the toil of trace and trail, and mournful in that he had so
little strength with which to pull; Teek, who had not travelled so far
that winter and who was now beaten more than the others because he was
fresher; and Buck, still at the head of the team, but no longer
enforcing discipline or striving to enforce it, blind with weakness
half the time and keeping the trail by the loom of it and by the dim
feel of his feet. - number of characters: 659

He sat by John Thorntons fire, a broad-breasted dog,
white-fanged and long-furred; but behind him were the shades of all
manner of dogs, half-wolves and wild wolves, urgent and prompting,
tasting the savor of the meat he ate, thirsting for the water he drank,
scenting the wind with him, listening with him and telling him the
sounds made by the wild life in the forest, dictating his moods,
directing his actions, lying down to sleep with him when he lay down,
and dreaming with him and beyond him and becoming themselves the stuff
of his dreams. - number of characters: 555

There is a patience of the wild—dogged, tireless, persistent as life
itself—that holds motionless for endless hours the spider in its web,
the snake in its coils, the panther in its ambuscade; this patience
belongs peculiarly to life when it hunts its living food; and it
belonged to Buck as he clung to the flank of the herd, retarding its
march, irritating the young bulls, worrying the cows with their
half-grown calves, and driving the wounded bull mad with helpless rage. - number of characters: 482

He plunged into the swimming tank or went hunting with the Judges
sons; he escorted Mollie and Alice, the Judges daughters, on long
twilight or early morning rambles; on wintry nights he lay at the
Judges feet before the roaring library fire; he carried the Judges
grandsons on his back, or rolled them in the grass, and guarded their
footsteps through wild adventures down to the fountain in the stable
yard, and even beyond, where the paddocks were, and the berry patches. - number of characters: 480

This was the pride of Dave as
wheel-dog, of Sol-leks as he pulled with all his strength; the pride
that laid hold of them at break of camp, transforming them from sour
and sullen brutes into straining, eager, ambitious creatures; the pride
that spurred them on all day and dropped them at pitch of camp at
night, letting them fall back into gloomy unrest and uncontent. - number of characters: 374

With the aurora borealis flaming coldly overhead, or the stars leaping
in the frost dance, and the land numb and frozen under its pall of
snow, this song of the huskies might have been the defiance of life,
only it was pitched in minor key, with long-drawn wailings and
half-sobs, and was more the pleading of life, the articulate travail of
existence. - number of characters: 357

This ecstasy, this forgetfulness of living, comes to the
artist, caught up and out of himself in a sheet of flame; it comes to
the soldier, war-mad on a stricken field and refusing quarter; and it
came to Buck, leading the pack, sounding the old wolf-cry, straining
after the food that was alive and that fled swiftly before him through
the moonlight. - number of characters: 356

Deep in the forest a
call was sounding, and as often as he heard this call, mysteriously
thrilling and luring, he felt compelled to turn his back upon the fire
and the beaten earth around it, and to plunge into the forest, and on
and on, he knew not where or why; nor did he wonder where or why, the
call sounding imperiously, deep in the forest. - number of characters: 351

When the sled started, he floundered in the soft snow alongside the
beaten trail, attacking Sol-leks with his teeth, rushing against him
and trying to thrust him off into the soft snow on the other side,
striving to leap inside his traces and get between him and the sled,
and all the while whining and yelping and crying with grief and pain. - number of characters: 346

Sometimes he thought of Judge Millers
big house in the sun-kissed Santa Clara Valley, and of the cement
swimming-tank, and Ysabel, the Mexican hairless, and Toots, the
Japanese pug; but oftener he remembered the man in the red sweater, the
death of Curly, the great fight with Spitz, and the good things he had
eaten or would like to eat. - number of characters: 343

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Understand? - number of words: 1
Sacredam! - number of words: 1
A-a-ah! - number of words: 1
Sure. - number of words: 1
Mush! - number of words: 1
he
shouted. - number of words: 1
whoa! - number of words: 1
Pooh! - number of words: 1
pooh! - number of words: 1
two
inches... - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "misunderstandings", length: 17
Word "enthusiastically", length: 16
Word "incomprehensible", length: 16
Word "insubordination", length: 15
Word "sympathetically", length: 15
Word "comprehensively", length: 15
Word "transportation", length: 14
Word "fastidiousness", length: 14
Word "decivilization", length: 14
Word "deliberateness", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 2115
Word "and", count: 1471
Word "of", count: 870
Word "was", count: 697
Word "to", count: 667
Word "a", count: 634
Word "he", count: 619
Word "his", count: 523
Word "in", count: 509
Word "Buck", count: 360

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 17244
Letter "t", count: 12623
Letter "a", count: 11123
Letter "n", count: 9909
Letter "h", count: 9816
Letter "o", count: 9425
Letter "i", count: 8631
Letter "s", count: 8235
Letter "r", count: 7813
Letter "d", count: 7367

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 2458
Punctuation mark ".", count: 1653
Punctuation mark "’", count: 272
Punctuation mark "-", count: 265
Punctuation mark ";", count: 179
Punctuation mark "“", count: 148
Punctuation mark "”", count: 148
Punctuation mark "—", count: 41
Punctuation mark "!", count: 41
Punctuation mark "?", count: 30
