Title: The King in Yellow
Author: Robert W. Chambers

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

Priests in black, with silver-buckled shoes; line
soldiers, slouchy and rakish; neat girls without hats bearing milliners
boxes, students with black portfolios and high hats, students with bérets
and big canes, nervous, quick-stepping officers, symphonies in turquoise
and silver; ponderous jangling cavalrymen all over dust, pastry cooks
boys skipping along with utter disregard for the safety of the basket
balanced on the impish head, and then the lean outcast, the shambling
Paris tramp, slouching with shoulders bent and little eye furtively
scanning the ground for smokers refuse;--all these moved in a steady
stream across the fountain circle and out into the city by the Odeon,
whose long arcades were now beginning to flicker with gas-jets. - number of characters: 759

On a raised tribune facing Washington Park stood the
Governor of New York, and behind him were grouped the Mayor of New
York and Brooklyn, the Inspector-General of Police, the Commandant of
the state troops, Colonel Livingston, military aid to the President of the
United States, General Blount, commanding at Governors Island,
Major-General Hamilton, commanding the garrison of New York and Brooklyn,
Admiral Buffby of the fleet in the North River, Surgeon-General
Lanceford, the staff of the National Free Hospital, Senators Wyse and
Franklin of New York, and the Commissioner of Public Works. - number of characters: 603

Sick at heart he wandered up and down under the great Arc, striving to
occupy his mind, peering up at the sculptured cornices to read the names
of the heroes and battles which he knew were engraved there, but always
the ashen face of Hartman followed him, grinning with terror!--or was it
terror?--was it not triumph?--At the thought he leaped like a man who
feels a knife at his throat, but after a savage tramp around the square,
came back again and sat down to battle with his misery. - number of characters: 493

Standing the day before on the cliffs below Kerselec with Goulven,
looking out over the sombre moors among which I had now lost my way,
these downs had appeared to me level as a meadow, stretching to the
horizon, and although I knew how deceptive is distance, I could not
realize that what from Kerselec seemed to be mere grassy hollows were
great valleys covered with gorse and heather, and what looked like
scattered boulders were in reality enormous cliffs of granite. - number of characters: 477

Where the placid little Ept flows down between its thickets to the Seine,
a grassy bank shadows the haunt of the gudgeon, and on this bank sat
Colette and Jacqueline and chattered and laughed and watched the swerving
of the scarlet quills, while Hastings, his hat over his eyes, his head on
a bank of moss, listened to their soft voices and gallantly unhooked the
small and indignant gudgeon when a flash of a rod and a half-suppressed
scream announced a catch. - number of characters: 467

One by one I studied the well-worn pages, worn only by my own handling,
and although I knew all by heart, from the beginning, When from Carcosa,
the Hyades, Hastur, and Aldebaran, to Castaigne, Louis de Calvados,
born December 19th, 1877, I read it with an eager, rapt attention,
pausing to repeat parts of it aloud, and dwelling especially on Hildred
de Calvados, only son of Hildred Castaigne and Edythe Landes Castaigne,
first in succession, etc., etc. - number of characters: 461

If I had not caught a glimpse of the opening
words in the second act I should never have finished it, but as I stooped
to pick it up, my eyes became riveted to the open page, and with a cry of
terror, or perhaps it was of joy so poignant that I suffered in every
nerve, I snatched the thing out of the coals and crept shaking to my
bedroom, where I read it and reread it, and wept and laughed and trembled
with a horror which at times assails me yet. - number of characters: 456

Oh, go on, go on; lets see, theres Clémence and
Marie Tellec and Cosette and Fifine, Colette, Marie Verdier--

All of whom are charming, most charming, but I never was serious--

So help me, Moses, said Elliott, solemnly, each and every one of those
named have separately and in turn torn your heart with anguish and have
also made me lose my place at Julians in this same manner; each and every
one, separately and in turn. - number of characters: 432

Brigs, schooners, yachts, clumsy ferry-boats, their decks swarming with
people, railroad transports carrying lines of brown, blue and white
freight cars, stately sound steamers, déclassé tramp steamers, coasters,
dredgers, scows, and everywhere pervading the entire bay impudent little
tugs puffing and whistling officiously;--these were the craft which
churned the sunlight waters as far as the eye could reach. - number of characters: 417

Every coast city had been well supplied with land
fortifications; the army under the parental eye of the General Staff,
organized according to the Prussian system, had been increased to 300,000
men, with a territorial reserve of a million; and six magnificent
squadrons of cruisers and battle-ships patrolled the six stations of the
navigable seas, leaving a steam reserve amply fitted to control home
waters. - number of characters: 415

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Castaigne! - number of words: 1
ting! - number of words: 1
ting! - number of words: 1
swish! - number of words: 1
Note.--C. - number of words: 1
Wilde. - number of words: 1
Wilde. - number of words: 1
Archer! - number of words: 1
Wilde. - number of words: 1
Wilde. - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "conscientiousness", length: 17
Word "enthusiastically", length: 16
Word "insubordination", length: 15
Word "administration", length: 14
Word "fortifications", length: 14
Word "naturalization", length: 14
Word "centralization", length: 14
Word "disappointment", length: 14
Word "advertisements", length: 14
Word "congratulation", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 4293
Word "and", count: 2791
Word "I", count: 2029
Word "a", count: 1618
Word "of", count: 1576
Word "to", count: 1547
Word "in", count: 1108
Word "he", count: 897
Word "was", count: 797
Word "his", count: 772

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 39168
Letter "t", count: 27440
Letter "a", count: 24526
Letter "o", count: 22158
Letter "i", count: 21428
Letter "n", count: 21177
Letter "h", count: 19961
Letter "s", count: 19097
Letter "r", count: 17793
Letter "d", count: 15345

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 5913
Punctuation mark ".", count: 3892
Punctuation mark """, count: 3505
Punctuation mark "-", count: 1504
Punctuation mark "'", count: 800
Punctuation mark "?", count: 440
Punctuation mark "!", count: 407
Punctuation mark ";", count: 317
Punctuation mark "_", count: 296
Punctuation mark ":", count: 120
