Title: The Odyssey
Author: Homer

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

Then he told of cunning Circe and her craft, and how he sailed to the
chill house of Hades, to consult the ghost of the Theban prophet
Teiresias, and how he saw his old comrades in arms, and his mother who
bore him and brought him up when he was a child; how he then heard the
wondrous singing of the Sirens, and went on to the wandering rocks and
terrible Charybdis and to Scylla, whom no man had ever yet passed in
safety; how his men then ate the cattle of the sun-god, and how Jove
therefore struck the ship with his thunderbolts, so that all his men
perished together, himself alone being left alive; how at last he
reached the Ogygian island and the nymph Calypso, who kept him there in
a cave, and fed him, and wanted him to marry her, in which case she
intended making him immortal so that he should never grow old, but she
could not persuade him to let her do so; and how after much suffering
he had found his way to the Phaeacians, who had treated him as though
he had been a god, and sent him back in a ship to his own country after
having given him gold, bronze, and raiment in great abundance. - number of characters: 1121

Is it possible that it was
the domed room round the outside of which the erring maids were, for
aught we have heard to the contrary, still hanging?]

[184] [ Ulysses bedroom in the mind of the writer is here too
apparently down stairs.]

[185] [ Penelope having been now sufficiently whitewashed, disappears
from the poem.]

[186] [ So practised a washerwoman as our authoress doubtless knew that
by this time the web must have become such a wreck that it would have
gone to pieces in the wash.]

A lady points out to me, just as these sheets are leaving my hands,
that no really good needlewoman—no one, indeed, whose work or character
was worth consideration—could have endured, no matter for what reason,
the unpicking of her days work, day after day for between three and
four years.]

[187] [ We must suppose Dolius not yet to know that his son Melanthius
had been tortured, mutilated, and left to die by Ulysses orders on the
preceding day, and that his daughter Melantho had been hanged. - number of characters: 1016

The
legend is evidently a Christianised version of the Odyssean story,
while the name supplies the additional detail that the disaster
happened in consequence of an evil counsel.]

[118] [ It would seem then that the ship had got all the way back from
Ithaca in about a quarter of an hour.]

[119] [ And may we not add and also to prevent his recognising that he
was only in the place where he had met Nausicaa two days earlier.]

[120] [ All this is to excuse the entire absence of Minerva from books
ix.-xii., which I suppose had been written already, before the
authoress had determined on making Minerva so prominent a character.]

[121] [ We have met with this somewhat lame attempt to cover the
writers change of scheme at the end of bk. - number of characters: 759

Then he sat down on the hearth among the ashes and they all held their
peace, till presently the old hero Echeneus, who was an excellent
speaker and an elder among the Phaeacians, plainly and in all honesty
addressed them thus:

Alcinous, said he, it is not creditable to you that a stranger
should be seen sitting among the ashes of your hearth; every one is
waiting to hear what you are about to say; tell him, then, to rise and
take a seat on a stool inlaid with silver, and bid your servants mix
some wine and water that we may make a drink offering to Jove the lord
of thunder, who takes all well disposed suppliants under his
protection; and let the housekeeper give him some supper, of whatever
there may be in the house. - number of characters: 740

Any one who at the present day discusses the questions that have arisen
round the Iliad since Wolfs time, without keeping it well before his
readers mind that the Odyssey was demonstrably written from one
single neighbourhood, and hence (even though nothing else pointed to
this conclusion) presumably by one person only—that it was written
certainly before 750, and in all probability before 1000 B.C.—that the
writer of this very early poem was demonstrably familiar with the
Iliad as we now have it, borrowing as freely from those books whose
genuineness has been most impugned, as from those which are admitted to
be by Homer—any one who fails to keep these points before his readers,
is hardly dealing equitably by them. - number of characters: 735

I do not say
that this is feminine, but it is not unfeminine.]

[157] [ See note [156]]

[158] [ This, I take it, was immediately in front of the main entrance
of the inner courtyard into the body of the house.]

[159] [ This is the only allusion to Sardinia in either Iliad or
Odyssey.]

[160] [ The normal translation of the Greek word would be holding
back, curbing, restraining, but I cannot think that the writer
meant this—she must have been using the word in its other sense of
having, holding, keeping, maintaining.]

[161] [ I have vainly tried to realise the construction of the
fastening here described.]

[162] [ See plan of Ulysses house in the appendix. - number of characters: 686

I shall myself give him this golden goblet—which is of
exquisite workmanship—that he may be reminded of me for the rest of his
life whenever he makes a drink offering to Jove, or to any of the
gods.70

Then Arete told her maids to set a large tripod upon the fire as fast
as they could, whereon they set a tripod full of bath water on to a
clear fire; they threw on sticks to make it blaze, and the water became
hot as the flame played about the belly of the tripod.71 Meanwhile
Arete brought a magnificent chest from her own room, and inside it she
packed all the beautiful presents of gold and raiment which the
Phaeacians had brought. - number of characters: 648

This much,
however, I know exceedingly well; you were very kind to me as long as
we Achaeans were fighting before Troy, but from the day on which we
went on board ship after having sacked the city of Priam, and heaven
dispersed us—from that day, Minerva, I saw no more of you, and cannot
ever remember your coming to my ship to help me in a difficulty; I had
to wander on sick and sorry till the gods delivered me from evil and I
reached the city of the Phaeacians, where you encouraged me and took me
into the town.120 And now, I beseech you in your fathers name, tell me
the truth, for I do not believe I am really back in Ithaca. - number of characters: 641

Our
ambuscade would have been intolerable, for the stench of the fishy
seals was most distressing45—who would go to bed with a sea monster if
he could help it?—but here, too, the goddess helped us, and thought of
something that gave us great relief, for she put some ambrosia under
each mans nostrils, which was so fragrant that it killed the smell of
the seals.46

We waited the whole morning and made the best of it, watching the
seals come up in hundreds to bask upon the sea shore, till at noon the
old man of the sea came up too, and when he had found his fat seals he
went over them and counted them. - number of characters: 617

As the dun nightingale, daughter of Pandareus, sings in
the early spring from her seat in shadiest covert hid, and with many a
plaintive trill pours out the tale how by mishap she killed her own
child Itylus, son of king Zethus, even so does my mind toss and turn in
its uncertainty whether I ought to stay with my son here, and safeguard
my substance, my bondsmen, and the greatness of my house, out of regard
to public opinion and the memory of my late husband, or whether it is
not now time for me to go with the best of these suitors who are wooing
me and making me such magnificent presents. - number of characters: 604

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
What! - number of words: 1
BUTLER. - number of words: 1
Alas! - number of words: 1
Parnassus. - number of words: 1
Hold! - number of words: 1
Alas! - number of words: 1
Parnassus. - number of words: 1
490-495. - number of words: 1
xxiii. - number of words: 1
xxii. - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "straightforwardly", length: 17
Word "inextinguishable", length: 16
Word "circumnavigation", length: 16
Word "accomplishments", length: 15
Word "disrespectfully", length: 15
Word "extraordinarily", length: 15
Word "notwithstanding", length: 15
Word "impossibilities", length: 15
Word "scholasticised", length: 14
Word "simultaneously", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 6564
Word "and", count: 5243
Word "of", count: 3500
Word "to", count: 3481
Word "I", count: 2004
Word "a", count: 1950
Word "you", count: 1817
Word "in", count: 1809
Word "he", count: 1701
Word "for", count: 1376

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 66697
Letter "t", count: 45421
Letter "o", count: 42912
Letter "a", count: 41667
Letter "h", count: 38143
Letter "n", count: 35436
Letter "s", count: 35156
Letter "i", count: 32539
Letter "r", count: 28619
Letter "d", count: 22773

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 9283
Punctuation mark ".", count: 4408
Punctuation mark "“", count: 1243
Punctuation mark ";", count: 1081
Punctuation mark "”", count: 998
Punctuation mark "’", count: 596
Punctuation mark "[", count: 405
Punctuation mark "]", count: 402
Punctuation mark "-", count: 399
Punctuation mark "—", count: 364
