Title: The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes
Author: Arthur Conan Doyle

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

When you combine the ideas of whistles at night, the presence of a
band of gipsies who are on intimate terms with this old doctor, the
fact that we have every reason to believe that the doctor has an
interest in preventing his stepdaughters marriage, the dying allusion
to a band, and, finally, the fact that Miss Helen Stoner heard a
metallic clang, which might have been caused by one of those metal bars
that secured the shutters falling back into its place, I think that
there is good ground to think that the mystery may be cleared along
those lines. - number of characters: 563

It is pleasant to me to observe,
Watson, that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little
records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up, and, I
am bound to say, occasionally to embellish, you have given prominence
not so much to the many _causes célèbres_ and sensational trials in
which I have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been
trivial in themselves, but which have given room for those faculties of
deduction and of logical synthesis which I have made my special
province. - number of characters: 536

THE ADVENTURE OF THE SPECKLED BAND


On glancing over my notes of the seventy odd cases in which I have
during the last eight years studied the methods of my friend Sherlock
Holmes, I find many tragic, some comic, a large number merely strange,
but none commonplace; for, working as he did rather for the love of his
art than for the acquirement of wealth, he refused to associate himself
with any investigation which did not tend towards the unusual, and even
the fantastic. - number of characters: 484

You have erred, perhaps, he observed, taking up a glowing cinder with
the tongs and lighting with it the long cherry-wood pipe which was wont
to replace his clay when he was in a disputatious rather than a
meditative mood—you have erred perhaps in attempting to put colour and
life into each of your statements instead of confining yourself to the
task of placing upon record that severe reasoning from cause to effect
which is really the only notable feature about the thing. - number of characters: 482

My own complete happiness, and the home-centred
interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master
of his own establishment, were sufficient to absorb all my attention,
while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole Bohemian
soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old
books, and alternating from week to week between cocaine and ambition,
the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen
nature. - number of characters: 480

A shock of orange hair, a
pale face disfigured by a horrible scar, which, by its contraction, has
turned up the outer edge of his upper lip, a bulldog chin, and a pair
of very penetrating dark eyes, which present a singular contrast to the
colour of his hair, all mark him out from amid the common crowd of
mendicants and so, too, does his wit, for he is ever ready with a reply
to any piece of chaff which may be thrown at him by the passers-by. - number of characters: 452

You suppose that your son came down from his
bed, went, at great risk, to your dressing-room, opened your bureau,
took out your coronet, broke off by main force a small portion of it,
went off to some other place, concealed three gems out of the
thirty-nine, with such skill that nobody can find them, and then
returned with the other thirty-six into the room in which he exposed
himself to the greatest danger of being discovered. - number of characters: 437

If
we could fly out of that window hand in hand, hover over this great
city, gently remove the roofs, and peep in at the queer things which
are going on, the strange coincidences, the plannings, the
cross-purposes, the wonderful chains of events, working through
generations, and leading to the most _outré_ results, it would make all
fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale
and unprofitable. - number of characters: 430

I shall have to tell my tale to the police; but,
between ourselves, if it were not for the convincing evidence of this
wound of mine, I should be surprised if they believed my statement, for
it is a very extraordinary one, and I have not much in the way of proof
with which to back it up; and, even if they believe me, the clues which
I can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will
be done. - number of characters: 421

Among my headings under
this one twelve months I find an account of the adventure of the
Paradol Chamber, of the Amateur Mendicant Society, who held a luxurious
club in the lower vault of a furniture warehouse, of the facts
connected with the loss of the British barque _Sophy Anderson_, of the
singular adventures of the Grice Patersons in the island of Uffa, and
finally of the Camberwell poisoning case. - number of characters: 412

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Seven! - number of words: 1
Frequently. - number of words: 1
Precisely. - number of words: 1
Holmes
whistled. - number of words: 1
Contralto—hum! - number of words: 1
None. - number of words: 1
None. - number of words: 1
Forgery. - number of words: 1
Stolen. - number of words: 1
Imitated. - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "disproportionately", length: 18
Word "conventionalities", length: 17
Word "indistinguishable", length: 17
Word "inconsequential", length: 15
Word "characteristics", length: 15
Word "improbabilities", length: 15
Word "accomplishments", length: 15
Word "uncontrollable", length: 14
Word "unpleasantness", length: 14
Word "disappointment", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 5263
Word "I", count: 3038
Word "and", count: 2818
Word "to", count: 2715
Word "of", count: 2625
Word "a", count: 2538
Word "in", count: 1692
Word "that", count: 1651
Word "was", count: 1392
Word "it", count: 1290

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 53082
Letter "t", count: 38980
Letter "a", count: 35125
Letter "o", count: 33475
Letter "i", count: 30138
Letter "h", count: 29048
Letter "n", count: 28641
Letter "s", count: 27159
Letter "r", count: 24502
Letter "d", count: 18520

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 7659
Punctuation mark ".", count: 6208
Punctuation mark "“", count: 2764
Punctuation mark "”", count: 2325
Punctuation mark "’", count: 1051
Punctuation mark "-", count: 739
Punctuation mark "?", count: 738
Punctuation mark "‘", count: 434
Punctuation mark "!", count: 346
Punctuation mark ";", count: 202
