Title: The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
Author: Robert Louis Stevenson

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

It was on the moral side, and in my own person,
that I learned to recognise the thorough and primitive duality of man;
I saw that, of the two natures that contended in the field of my
consciousness, even if I could rightly be said to be either, it was
only because I was radically both; and from an early date, even before
the course of my scientific discoveries had begun to suggest the most
naked possibility of such a miracle, I had learned to dwell with
pleasure, as a beloved daydream, on the thought of the separation of
these elements. - number of characters: 550

This person (who had thus, from the first moment of his entrance,
struck in me what I can only describe as a disgustful curiosity) was
dressed in a fashion that would have made an ordinary person laughable;
his clothes, that is to say, although they were of rich and sober
fabric, were enormously too large for him in every measurement—the
trousers hanging on his legs and rolled up to keep them from the
ground, the waist of the coat below his haunches, and the collar
sprawling wide upon his shoulders. - number of characters: 511

That part of me which I had the power of
projecting, had lately been much exercised and nourished; it had seemed
to me of late as though the body of Edward Hyde had grown in stature,
as though (when I wore that form) I were conscious of a more generous
tide of blood; and I began to spy a danger that, if this were much
prolonged, the balance of my nature might be permanently overthrown,
the power of voluntary change be forfeited, and the character of Edward
Hyde become irrevocably mine. - number of characters: 497

As the cab drew up before the address indicated, the fog lifted a
little and showed him a dingy street, a gin palace, a low French eating
house, a shop for the retail of penny numbers and twopenny salads, many
ragged children huddled in the doorways, and many women of many
different nationalities passing out, key in hand, to have a morning
glass; and the next moment the fog settled down again upon that part,
as brown as umber, and cut him off from his blackguardly surroundings. - number of characters: 488

It was the first time that the lawyer had been received in
that part of his friends quarters; and he eyed the dingy, windowless
structure with curiosity, and gazed round with a distasteful sense of
strangeness as he crossed the theatre, once crowded with eager students
and now lying gaunt and silent, the tables laden with chemical
apparatus, the floor strewn with crates and littered with packing
straw, and the light falling dimly through the foggy cupola. - number of characters: 465

I lingered but a moment at the mirror: the second and conclusive
experiment had yet to be attempted; it yet remained to be seen if I had
lost my identity beyond redemption and must flee before daylight from a
house that was no longer mine; and hurrying back to my cabinet, I once
more prepared and drank the cup, once more suffered the pangs of
dissolution, and came to myself once more with the character, the
stature and the face of Henry Jekyll. - number of characters: 454

Hyde was pale and dwarfish, he gave an
impression of deformity without any nameable malformation, he had a
displeasing smile, he had borne himself to the lawyer with a sort of
murderous mixture of timidity and boldness, and he spoke with a husky,
whispering and somewhat broken voice; all these were points against
him, but not all of these together could explain the hitherto unknown
disgust, loathing and fear with which Mr. - number of characters: 432

If each, I told myself, could be housed in separate
identities, life would be relieved of all that was unbearable; the
unjust might go his way, delivered from the aspirations and remorse of
his more upright twin; and the just could walk steadfastly and securely
on his upward path, doing the good things in which he found his
pleasure, and no longer exposed to disgrace and penitence by the hands
of this extraneous evil. - number of characters: 427

A cry followed; he
reeled, staggered, clutched at the table and held on, staring with
injected eyes, gasping with open mouth; and as I looked there came, I
thought, a change—he seemed to swell—his face became suddenly black and
the features seemed to melt and alter—and the next moment, I had sprung
to my feet and leaped back against the wall, my arms raised to shield
me from that prodigy, my mind submerged in terror. - number of characters: 426

It is useless, and the time awfully fails me, to prolong this
description; no one has ever suffered such torments, let that suffice;
and yet even to these, habit brought—no, not alleviation—but a certain
callousness of soul, a certain acquiescence of despair; and my
punishment might have gone on for years, but for the last calamity
which has now fallen, and which has finally severed me from my own face
and nature. - number of characters: 423

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Indeed? - number of words: 1
Tut-tut! - number of words: 1
Utterson. - number of words: 1
Enfield. - number of words: 1
Enfield. - number of words: 1
Utterson. - number of words: 1
Enfield. - number of words: 1
Utterson. - number of words: 1
Lanyon. - number of words: 1
Indeed? - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "unimpressionable", length: 16
Word "undemonstrative", length: 15
Word "transformations", length: 15
Word "circumscription", length: 15
Word "acknowledgment", length: 14
Word "accomplishment", length: 14
Word "unquestionably", length: 14
Word "correspondence", length: 14
Word "responsibility", length: 14
Word "investigations", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 1507
Word "of", count: 932
Word "and", count: 906
Word "I", count: 646
Word "to", count: 640
Word "a", count: 608
Word "was", count: 466
Word "in", count: 412
Word "that", count: 363
Word "he", count: 333

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 13455
Letter "t", count: 9887
Letter "a", count: 8619
Letter "o", count: 8248
Letter "n", count: 7421
Letter "i", count: 7175
Letter "s", count: 6735
Letter "h", count: 6726
Letter "r", count: 6060
Letter "d", count: 5283

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 2048
Punctuation mark ".", count: 1207
Punctuation mark ";", count: 527
Punctuation mark "“", count: 437
Punctuation mark "”", count: 428
Punctuation mark "’", count: 186
Punctuation mark "?", count: 120
Punctuation mark "-", count: 83
Punctuation mark "—", count: 71
Punctuation mark "!", count: 53
