Title: The Time Machine
Author: H. G. Wells

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

Wells


CONTENTS

 I Introduction
 II The Machine
 III The Time Traveller Returns
 IV Time Travelling
 V In the Golden Age
 VI The Sunset of Mankind
 VII A Sudden Shock
 VIII Explanation
 IX The Morlocks
 X When Night Came
 XI The Palace of Green Porcelain
 XII In the Darkness
 XIII The Trap of the White Sphinx
 XIV The Further Vision
 XV The Time Travellers Return
 XVI After the Story
 Epilogue




 I. - number of characters: 432

Presently, as I went on, still
gaining velocity, the palpitation of night and day merged into one
continuous greyness; the sky took on a wonderful deepness of blue, a
splendid luminous colour like that of early twilight; the jerking sun
became a streak of fire, a brilliant arch, in space; the moon a fainter
fluctuating band; and I could see nothing of the stars, save now and
then a brighter circle flickering in the blue. - number of characters: 430

And this same widening gulf—which is due
to the length and expense of the higher educational process and the
increased facilities for and temptations towards refined habits on the
part of the rich—will make that exchange between class and class, that
promotion by intermarriage which at present retards the splitting of
our species along lines of social stratification, less and less
frequent. - number of characters: 399

Here, apparently, was the Palæontological Section, and a very splendid
array of fossils it must have been, though the inevitable process of
decay that had been staved off for a time, and had, through the
extinction of bacteria and fungi, lost ninety-nine hundredths of its
force, was nevertheless, with extreme sureness if with extreme slowness
at work again upon all its treasures. - number of characters: 387

I have a memory of horrible
fatigue, as the long night of despair wore away; of looking in this
impossible place and that; of groping among moonlit ruins and touching
strange creatures in the black shadows; at last, of lying on the ground
near the sphinx and weeping with absolute wretchedness, even anger at
the folly of leaving the machine having leaked away with my strength. - number of characters: 383

But to come to a stop involved the jamming of
myself, molecule by molecule, into whatever lay in my way; meant
bringing my atoms into such intimate contact with those of the obstacle
that a profound chemical reaction—possibly a far-reaching
explosion—would result, and blow myself and my apparatus out of all
possible dimensions—into the Unknown. - number of characters: 351

Where population
is balanced and abundant, much childbearing becomes an evil rather than
a blessing to the State; where violence comes but rarely and offspring
are secure, there is less necessity—indeed there is no necessity—for an
efficient family, and the specialisation of the sexes with reference to
their childrens needs disappears. - number of characters: 342

But, gradually, the truth dawned on me: that Man
had not remained one species, but had differentiated into two distinct
animals: that my graceful children of the Upper World were not the sole
descendants of our generation, but that this bleached, obscene,
nocturnal Thing, which had flashed before me, was also heir to all the
ages. - number of characters: 337

Seeing the ease and security in which these people were living, I felt
that this close resemblance of the sexes was after all what one would
expect; for the strength of a man and the softness of a woman, the
institution of the family, and the differentiation of occupations are
mere militant necessities of an age of physical force. - number of characters: 336

A little way up the hill, for instance, was a
great heap of granite, bound together by masses of aluminium, a vast
labyrinth of precipitous walls and crumpled heaps, amidst which were
thick heaps of very beautiful pagoda-like plants—nettles possibly—but
wonderfully tinted with brown about the leaves, and incapable of
stinging. - number of characters: 333

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Well? - number of words: 1
Well? - number of words: 1
said
Filby. - number of words: 1
You
see? - number of words: 1
Wheres——? - number of words: 1
Hallo! - number of words: 1
Good
heavens! - number of words: 1
Im—funny! - number of words: 1
Story! - number of words: 1
Thanks. - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "inextinguishable", length: 16
Word "incomprehensible", length: 16
Word "_instantaneous_", length: 15
Word "representations", length: 15
Word "proportionately", length: 15
Word "differentiation", length: 15
Word "preternaturally", length: 15
Word "Palæontological", length: 15
Word "intermittently", length: 14
Word "mathematicians", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 2066
Word "I", count: 1267
Word "of", count: 1158
Word "and", count: 1150
Word "a", count: 795
Word "to", count: 674
Word "was", count: 550
Word "in", count: 508
Word "my", count: 426
Word "that", count: 421

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 17918
Letter "t", count: 13591
Letter "a", count: 11747
Letter "i", count: 10213
Letter "n", count: 9979
Letter "o", count: 9795
Letter "s", count: 8555
Letter "h", count: 8302
Letter "r", count: 7715
Letter "d", count: 6342

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 2250
Punctuation mark ".", count: 1804
Punctuation mark "“", count: 351
Punctuation mark "—", count: 179
Punctuation mark "”", count: 176
Punctuation mark "’", count: 150
Punctuation mark "-", count: 150
Punctuation mark ";", count: 109
Punctuation mark "?", count: 96
Punctuation mark "!", count: 67
