Title: Treasure Island
Author: Robert Louis Stevenson

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

English, French, Spanish,
Portuguese, Georges, and Louises, doubloons and double guineas and
moidores and sequins, the pictures of all the kings of Europe for the
last hundred years, strange Oriental pieces stamped with what looked
like wisps of string or bits of spiders web, round pieces and square
pieces, and pieces bored through the middle, as if to wear them round
your neck--nearly every variety of money in the world must, I think,
have found a place in that collection; and for number, I am sure they
were like autumn leaves, so that my back ached with stooping and my
fingers with sorting them out. - number of characters: 617

Perhaps it was this--perhaps it was the look of the island, with its
grey, melancholy woods, and wild stone spires, and the surf that we
could both see and hear foaming and thundering on the steep beach--at
least, although the sun shone bright and hot, and the shore birds were
fishing and crying all around us, and you would have thought anyone
would have been glad to get to land after being so long at sea, my heart
sank, as the saying is, into my boots; and from the first look onward, I
hated the very thought of Treasure Island. - number of characters: 541

Ben, in his long, lonely wanderings about the island, had found the
skeleton--it was he that had rifled it; he had found the treasure; he
had dug it up (it was the haft of his pick-axe that lay broken in the
excavation); he had carried it on his back, in many weary journeys, from
the foot of the tall pine to a cave he had on the two-pointed hill at
the north-east angle of the island, and there it had lain stored in
safety since two months before the arrival of the HISPANIOLA. - number of characters: 486

TO THE HESITATING PURCHASER

               If sailor tales to sailor tunes,
                  Storm and adventure, heat and cold,
               If schooners, islands, and maroons,
                  And buccaneers, and buried gold,
               And all the old romance, retold
                  Exactly in the ancient way,
               Can please, as me they pleased of old,
                  The wiser youngsters of today:

               --So be it, and fall on! - number of characters: 480

When the doctor had wormed this secret from him on the afternoon of the
attack, and when next morning he saw the anchorage deserted, he had gone
to Silver, given him the chart, which was now useless--given him the
stores, for Ben Gunns cave was well supplied with goats meat salted
by himself--given anything and everything to get a chance of moving in
safety from the stockade to the two-pointed hill, there to be clear of
malaria and keep a guard upon the money. - number of characters: 470

The captain sat down to his log, and here is the beginning of the entry:

     Alexander Smollett, master; David Livesey, ships
     doctor; Abraham Gray, carpenters mate; John
     Trelawney, owner; John Hunter and Richard Joyce,
     owners servants, landsmen--being all that is left
     faithful of the ships company--with stores for ten
     days at short rations, came ashore this day and flew
     British colours on the log-house in Treasure Island. - number of characters: 465

Livesey, and the rest of these gentlemen having
asked me to write down the whole particulars about Treasure Island, from
the beginning to the end, keeping nothing back but the bearings of the
island, and that only because there is still treasure not yet lifted, I
take up my pen in the year of grace 17__ and go back to the time when
my father kept the Admiral Benbow inn and the brown old seaman with the
sabre cut first took up his lodging under our roof. - number of characters: 463

I was
wedged in between Redruth and a stout old gentleman, and in spite of the
swift motion and the cold night air, I must have dozed a great deal from
the very first, and then slept like a log up hill and down dale through
stage after stage, for when I was awakened at last it was by a punch
in the ribs, and I opened my eyes to find that we were standing still
before a large building in a city street and that the day had already
broken a long time. - number of characters: 459

On our little walk along the quays, he made himself the most interesting
companion, telling me about the different ships that we passed by,
their rig, tonnage, and nationality, explaining the work that was going
forward--how one was discharging, another taking in cargo, and a third
making ready for sea--and every now and then telling me some little
anecdote of ships or seamen or repeating a nautical phrase till I had
learned it perfectly. - number of characters: 448

Add to this double apprehension the mystery that still hung over the
behaviour of my friends, their unexplained desertion of the stockade,
their inexplicable cession of the chart, or harder still to understand,
the doctors last warning to Silver, Look out for squalls when you
find it, and you will readily believe how little taste I found in my
breakfast and with how uneasy a heart I set forth behind my captors on
the quest for treasure. - number of characters: 446

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Livesey. - number of words: 1
Wounded? - number of words: 1
Thunder! - number of words: 1
Twice! - number of words: 1
Dance. - number of words: 1
Livesey. - number of words: 1
Money! - number of words: 1
Livesey. - number of words: 1
Right! - number of words: 1
Right! - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "incomprehensible", length: 16
Word "bloodthirstiest", length: 15
Word "miscalculations", length: 15
Word "unintelligible", length: 14
Word "recommendation", length: 14
Word "superintending", length: 14
Word "simultaneously", length: 14
Word "disappointment", length: 14
Word "accomplishment", length: 14
Word "apologetically", length: 14

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 4075
Word "and", count: 2680
Word "I", count: 1968
Word "a", count: 1720
Word "of", count: 1671
Word "to", count: 1508
Word "was", count: 1130
Word "in", count: 932
Word "you", count: 869
Word "that", count: 857

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 33306
Letter "t", count: 24887
Letter "a", count: 23674
Letter "o", count: 21641
Letter "n", count: 19135
Letter "h", count: 18048
Letter "i", count: 17759
Letter "s", count: 16873
Letter "r", count: 15205
Letter "d", count: 13653

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 6429
Punctuation mark ".", count: 3654
Punctuation mark "’", count: 1541
Punctuation mark "-", count: 1300
Punctuation mark "“", count: 1237
Punctuation mark "”", count: 1233
Punctuation mark ";", count: 664
Punctuation mark "!", count: 301
Punctuation mark "?", count: 280
Punctuation mark ":", count: 67
