Title: Unnatural death
Author: Dorothy L. Sayers

10 longest sentences by number of characters:

The fat man on their right was unctuously entertaining two
ladies of the chorus; beyond him, two elderly habitués were showing
their acquaintance with the fare at the Au Bon Bourgeois by consuming
a Tripes à la Mode de Caen (which they do very excellently there) and a
bottle of Chablis Moutonne 1916; on the other side of the room a
provincial and his wife were stupidly clamouring for a cut off the joint
with lemonade for the lady and whisky and soda for the gentleman, while
at the adjoining table, the handsome silver-haired proprietor, absorbed
in fatiguing a salad for a family party, had for the moment no thoughts
beyond the nice adjustment of the chopped herbs and garlic. - number of characters: 691

Nothing, however, was seen of Lord Peter for something like a quarter of
an hour, when he suddenly put his head in with an amiable smile and
said:

One red-haired woman in a crimson hat; three dark women in black hats;
several nondescript women in those pull-on sort of dust-coloured hats;
old women with grey hair, various; sixteen flappers without hats—hats on
rack, I mean, but none of em crimson; two obvious brides in blue hats;
innumerable fair women in hats of all colours; one ash-blonde dressed as
a nurse, none of em our friend as far as I know. - number of characters: 564

CHAPTER VIII
                            Concerning Crime


  _Society is at the mercy of a murderer who is remorseless,_
  _who takes no accomplices and who keeps his head._
                            Edmund Pearson, _Murder at Smutty Nose_


_Letter from Miss Alexandra Katherine Climpson to Lord Peter Wimsey._

                                                            Fair View,
                                                          Nelson Avenue,
                                                             Leahampton. - number of characters: 545

—and Smote Him, Thus                                        227




                                 Part I
                          THE MEDICAL PROBLEM


  _But how I caught it, found it, came by it,
  What stuff tis made of, whereof it is born,
  I am to learn._
                                               _Merchant of Venice_




                               CHAPTER I
                               Overheard


  _The death was certainly sudden, unexpected, and to me mysterious._
       _Letter from Dr. - number of characters: 537

Oriental scholars and explorers
were button-holed in clubs and strenuously pumped on the subject of
abstruse native poisons; horrid experiments performed in German
laboratories were communicated in unreadable documents; and the life of
Sir James Lubbock, who had the misfortune to be a particular friend of
Lord Peters, was made a burden to him with daily inquiries as to the
post-mortem detection of such varying substances as chloroform, curate,
hydrocyanic acid gas and diethylsulphonmethylethylmetane. - number of characters: 512

Thousands of old maids, simply
bursting with useful energy, forced by our stupid social system into
hydros and hotels and communities and hostels and posts as companions,
where their magnificent gossip-powers and units of inquisitiveness are
allowed to dissipate themselves or even become harmful to the community,
while the ratepayers money is spent on getting work for which these
women are providentially fitted, inefficiently carried out by
ill-equipped policemen like you. - number of characters: 484

What you
are looking for is the death-certificate of an old lady of 73; cause of
death, cancer; immediate cause, heart failure; and the certificate will
have been signed by two doctors, one of whom will be either a Medical
Officer of Health, Police Surgeon, Certifying Surgeon under the Factory
and Workshops Act, Medical Referee under the Workmens Compensation Act,
Physician or Surgeon in a big General Hospital, or a man specially
appointed by the Cremation authorities. - number of characters: 480

Murbles, who up till this point had held the
index-finger of the right hand poised against the ring-finger of the
left, in recognition of the claims of the brothers and sisters of the
half-blood, now placed his left palm upon the table and wagged his right
index-finger admonishingly in Parkers direction)—in _law_ the word may
bear one of two, or indeed several, interpretations according to the
nature of the document in which it occurs and the date of that
document. - number of characters: 476

Browning, _Aurora Leigh_




                              CHAPTER XIX
                               Gone Away


  _There is nothing good or evil save in the will._
                                                               Epictetus


You will not, I imagine, deny, observed Lord Peter, that very odd
things seem to happen to the people who are in a position to give
information about the last days of Agatha Dawson. - number of characters: 437

And
tell me, man of no discrimination and worthy to be fed on boiled cod all
the year round, tell me how it comes that your little waitress and her
railway clerk come down to Epping Forest to regale themselves on
sandwiches made from coal-black, treacle-cured Bradenham ham, which long
ago ran as a young wild boar about the woodlands, till death translated
it to an incorruptible and more glorious body? - number of characters: 410

10 shortest sentences by numbers of words:
Hist. - number of words: 1
Perfectly. - number of words: 1
Good. - number of words: 1
Hullo! - number of words: 1
Exactly. - number of words: 1
Nurse! - number of words: 1
Nothing. - number of words: 1
Grave? - number of words: 1
taxi! - number of words: 1
Parker. - number of words: 1

10 longest words:
Word "diethylsulphonmethylethylmetane", length: 31
Word "disproportionately", length: 18
Word "conscientiousness", length: 17
Word "_unconscionable_", length: 16
Word "conversationally", length: 16
Word "uncompromisingly", length: 16
Word "misunderstanding", length: 16
Word "unsophisticated", length: 15
Word "extraordinarily", length: 15
Word "_opportunities_", length: 15

10 most common words:
Word "the", count: 3719
Word "to", count: 2323
Word "and", count: 2132
Word "a", count: 2023
Word "I", count: 1938
Word "of", count: 1902
Word "was", count: 1203
Word "that", count: 1189
Word "in", count: 1151
Word "you", count: 1131

10 most common letters:
Letter "e", count: 42693
Letter "t", count: 33465
Letter "a", count: 28865
Letter "o", count: 28033
Letter "i", count: 25128
Letter "n", count: 23974
Letter "s", count: 23532
Letter "h", count: 21291
Letter "r", count: 21133
Letter "d", count: 15751

10 most popular punctuation marks:
Punctuation mark ",", count: 6419
Punctuation mark ".", count: 5866
Punctuation mark "’", count: 2617
Punctuation mark "“", count: 2216
Punctuation mark "”", count: 2154
Punctuation mark "—", count: 1128
Punctuation mark "_", count: 1030
Punctuation mark "?", count: 781
Punctuation mark "-", count: 751
Punctuation mark "!", count: 334
